---
layout: default
---


Focus areas
===========

For some environments we are building a whole set of documentation to help
you get started.  For now we have only one such section for enterprises. 
More contributions would be more than welcome!

- [Enterprise](enterprise)

Information structure
=====================

This website is not meant as a checklist or a step by step manual.  We try
to structure the information in such a way that it is easy to get an
overview of what you need to think of when deploying IPv6.  When we have
more detailed information about a specific subject we create a separate page
for that, which again should give you an overview with links to more
specific information etc.

The best way to read the information on this website is to first read the
full page before clicking through to more detailed information.

There is a lot of information already out there.  Where possible we prefer
links to existing high-quality documentation instead of new text. 
Especially if there is good documentation from well known sources such as
[ISOC Deploy360](http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/), the [RIPE
community](https://www.ripe.net/participate/ripe),
[NANOG](https://www.nanog.org) etc.  When multiple good sources exist they
should all be referred to.

Contributing
============

We encourage participation in building this repository of IPv6 information. 
There are many places where we would like to go into more detail and give
more guidance.  We are especially interested in documentation written by
people who have just deployed IPv6 to learn from and share their
experiences.  The contents of this website are maintained on
[GitHub](https://github.com/ipv6guide/ipv6guide.github.io).

All content contributed to this website must be made available under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA
4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license so that others
can use it freely.

When sending in pull-requests please explicitly state that you hold the
rights to your contributed content and that you agree that your
contributions are published under this license.

-----
Based on work for and by:

[![ISOC Deploy360](isoc-deploy360.jpg)](http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/)
