---
title: Preparations
---

Before starting with IPv6 it is important to [write down the
reasons](incentives) why IPv6 should be implemented.  Even though there is a
global need for more than IPv4 can provide every organisation will have
different reasons for implementing IPv6 in a specific place at a specific
time.  These might not be obvious to everyone involved.  Making sure that
everybody understands the reasons will prevent a lot of problems later in the
project.

Deploying IPv6 throughout an enterprise is not something that can be done
without [proper planning](planning).  You need to prepare yourself well.  A
first step is to appoint an [IPv6 project manager](project_manager).  One of
the first tasks of this project manager should be to [identify which
equipment needs upgrades or replacement](identify_equipment).  Enterprises
often use online services (a.k.a.  "Cloud"), either as a service for their
own users or to outsource providing services to their customers.  You should
[identify which services support IPv6](identify_services).  This is not only
to identify potential bottlenecks, but also to see if those services can do
some of the hard work for you!

But it is not just the equipment and services that need to work with IPv6. 
More importantly: everybody who is involved in running the network,
attaching devices to the network and running applications on the network
need to know how to work with IPv6.  [Identifying the education and training
requirements](training_requirements) is very important.  Once these
requirements have been identified it should be possible to [calculate the
cost for equipment and education](calculate_cost).

With the reasons, plans and costs in hand it is time to [present](present)
these to the management.  Introducing a new network infrastructure involves
many different people, departments and disciplines.  Without strong
management support the project to implement IPv6 is doomed to fail.

The final step of a good preparation is to [build a lab](build_lab) and get
some hands-on experience.  Just reading about IPv6 is not enough.  No matter
how well your people understand the theoretical concepts, getting the "feel"
of how IPv6 works it is not possible to benefit from all the possibilities
it offers.
